And I want to get started with attributes and slots. If we have a look at our discover page, then there
we do have our ion-card with our featured place and below that, we have our ion-list with an
ion-item
and there we got two interesting things.
First of all, we have added a so-called attribute to the ion-item, that is this detail thing here
and we also are using a slot.
Now what's up with attributes and slots? Attributes are a feature you should know because they're not
exclusive to Ionic or to Ionic Angular apps, instead attributes allow us to place information on HTML
elements or on web components here that are then consumed by these components and that do something
in these components and
that's the same for vanilla HTML elements of course.
Now the detail here for example is simply a property for which Ionic looks out for and when you add
it, it knows that it needs to add this tiny icon, this arrow icon on the item here. Another thing that
can be confusing is the difference between attributes and properties,
I use these terms interchangeably but actually, they're not entirely the same.
This here is an attribute, whatever you place on your element selector, on this tag is an attribute. An
attribute then internally by that component is typically bound to a property of that component and
a property is simply like a variable inside of a class,
so place here for example would be a property of the place
detail page class. Web components and native HTML elements also are based on such classes in the end
you could say, they are based on Javascript objects and these objects do have properties and the attributes
are just the HTML way of assigning values to these properties. You can also assign values to them
by directly selecting the element though and then assigning a property in Javascript or in Typescript
here.
So that's just something which is not super important for us here because it doesn't really make a difference
for us here but it is worth noting that in theory, an attribute is what you assign here and a property
would be whatever you use in your Typescript code, like here when I assign something to this place, then
I'm assigning this to the place property not to a place attribute and this place detail component here
by the way wouldn't even work with a place attribute because we haven't made place bindable with
@input here.
So that is one thing,
the other important thing is the slot.
If we have a look at the discover page, we see that the thumbnail here has a slot of start. Now slots
are not an Ionic feature, they are also a feature you don't see in Angular apps though,
so where are slots coming from? Slots are a web component feature and web components is a term of specifications
that are built into the browser, so native web features. A slot allows you to define a place in your web
component where external content can be rendered in.
So this slot here for example refers to the ion-item which basically reserves a place inside of its
internal DOM where this part here with the slot start on should be rendered in. That becomes even clearer
if you dive into the official source code, if you visit the Github repository of these Ionic components which
you'll find on the Ionic repository,
then under core source components and there, you look for the item component, here. If you dive into
that item.tsx file, you will in the end see if you scroll down what actually gets rendered here in
this render method.
Now this is just how Stencil, the compiler used by Ionic to build these web components works but in
the end, this is some HTML code you could say, it's actual JSX but doesn't matter, it's like HTML
which gets rendered. Now as you see, this essentially defines which kind of tag it should render, that
either is a button or an anchor tag or a div depending on some attributes that you may have set or
not set
and then inside of this wrapping tag which is again a button, an anchor tag or a div, you see this slot thing.
And that in the end defines OK any element inside of your ion-item that does have a slot of start will
be rendered here,
anything that does not have a specific slot set takes that default slot here which is in the middle
of these two wrapping divs which basically will assign some styling
and then you also have that slot with the name end. Now you also don't have to dive into the official
source code to find out which slots you can set, in the Ionic component documentation if you go to the
item, there you also find information about the settable slots. But slots are basically your way of telling
Ionic where in this item to put a certain content and this ensures that the thumbnail content, this
image here gets placed all the way on the left of this item or at the start of this item to be precise,
where it is depends on your region settings and so on and that this part which does not have an explicit
slot assignment gets rendered in that default slot in the middle.
This is how slots works and what you have to know about attributes, we'll use both heavily in this course
since Ionic uses them heavily and therefore it is important to understand what you're doing when you're
assigning attributes or slots.